Let's continue our texture painting and as I've said before I kind of like to try and find that the
easiest thing to do first.
It kind of eases me into the process whatever it is working on currently and I'm not sure exactly what
would be the easiest for me.
Maybe this belt.
I was thinking maybe I should do the belt and straps first and that would kind of ease me into the process.
So what I really need to do is find reference images.
So I'm going to go out to Google and just see what I can find.
So I'm just going to look for leather belt on Google and go to images and they look a little too new
to me.
Let's about something like worn leather belt that's getting there something like this.
And old old worn leather belt.
I'm also going to come over here to the search tools go to size and look for anything large like that
just so I have a nice big image to work with.
I kind of like the leather of this chair.
I guess that's for shotgun shells or something I kind of like that.
I may grab that kind of like this one too.
So I think I'll grab a couple out of here that I can use in Blender to be a reference image as well
as to sample colors off of.
All right back in Blender.
Let's go ahead and create a new window here I'm going to click on this tab and drag down to create a
new window.
And in this window what I'd like to do is open up a new image and I'll go find those reference images
and I'll click on this button up here to display thumbnails of all the images.
And here we go.
So I've got a couple of images kind of like this one for different colors.
I'll begin with this one I think and I'll open the image and there it is.
So also what I need to do is come over here and make sure that this mode is set to paint and I don't
really need the U-V wires over this so I'll go to View and turn off draw texture paint UVA's and there
we go.
So this has some nice imagery here with the different colors and even the texture I kind of like I don't
know that I'll try and replicate the texture exactly but I do like what's going on here.
All right.
So having said that let's zoom in to our belt here.
Once we get here I'm going to press alt F to frame up the area underneath the cursor and now it will
tumble around at that point.
I'm going to zoom in to where it is on the UVM map.
Here it is.
So to begin I'm going to create a new texture paint slot that's transparent that when I paint on it
we'll be able to see over the base color.
So I'll come up here to add texture paint slot create a diffuse color slot I'll call this.
Oh I don't know let's just call this details one.
Let's do that.
Let's make these 2048.
And now here's the important part of this.
We need to take the color from this black and we need to change this from an alpha of one to an alpha
of zero.
So that this slot is completely transparent and we can see through it to the base color.
So now that I've got that Alpha to zero Our click OK.
And there we go we've got our details map here.
Right here it is.
It's transparent.
But when we use it to paint with we'll be able to see it over our base color.
Let me switch back to the belt image here.
So now if I come in here and hover over this image I'll hold down the Esc key.
I can then click and sample a color.
Let me go back to the Tools tab and I'll switch from the Phil brush to the texture draw so I can hover
over here.
And find a color maybe something like this.
And now I have that color sampled here I'll reduce the strength and if I zoom in here you can see that
I can begin just laying down bits of color there.
Now it's a little blotchy.
There are some things I can do to add a bit of interest to the paint stroke here.
I'll scroll down in the Tools tab.
Down here to stroke and within here we've got the jitter and spacing fields the jitter just sprays the
paint out in blotches.
So I'm gonna increase that just a bit and the spacing dictates how far those blotches will be will be
dispersed.
So if I come in here and I draw here let me get the spacing out a little bit more and the jitter out
a little bit more.
You can see it's beginning to lay down these kind of blotches as I paint.
Now that's not quite what I wanted.
But we're getting there so I want to reduce that a bit reduce the jitter a bit.
And just come in here and lightly paint along the edges and you can see now I'm getting a little bit
more randomness to the stroke and that's kind of what I want I mean and do this and I'm going to take
this strength down just a little bit more.
Now just going to paint around the edges here as if it's been worn around the edges.
You know we go
now you should be able to see the strokes laying down here in the U-V editor and sure enough here they
are.
Now if my mowed down here is set to paint and it is I can use the paint tools over here in the U-V editor
as well.
So if I came in here and reduce the size of the brush I'm going to hit the F key and reduce the size
of the brush so I could actually do my painting here if I wanted as well.
Just like this you can see that that extends the paint on over here.
So it's really kind of how you want to do the work kind of helps to have both.
So you can see what you're doing.
So in addition to having your texture slot come in or be a blend type of mix you can also change your
blend types here so maybe what you've painted now you'd like to have be blended with the multiply mode
and you can see how that darkens that up.
Now you could change to screen or Litan so you can have different mix modes here.
Now as I mentioned before this image is a completely separate image now.
It's not it's not by default.
Part of the scene file.
So each texture slot is its own image file on your hard drive.
And notice here we have the Asterix again.
So I'm going to click on the image menu and I'm going to save this as its own image.
I want to click save as image and here's where I'm keeping my texture paint layers and this one details
one that sounds pretty good so I'll just click save as image.
Now that's been saved as an image on its own.
If we want to then save it again if I do a little more painting here let's say I come around here and
do a little more painting.
Now the Asterix is back.
I can always come in and click alt s here.
Yes.
To save the image.
Here it says saved image up here but once again I also need to press control or command s to save the
scene as well.
Now in the end you can always pack your scene and your images together over here under external data.
You can pack all into a single blend file but that really doesn't help you as you're working as you're
saving the scene and the image again and again.
All right so I'm going to work a little bit more on the straps and the belt and in the next video we'll
continue on with our texture painting.